Historically, whenever a student at Mason has had a qualm with the administration school's various technology platforms (MacBooks, FCCPS-\* networks, etc.), there has been little means of working out such controversy. Students have occasionally felt like their own personal technology needs have been ignored, and options for redress of grievances has been limited to:
* Publishing [op-eds](http://gmhslasso.org/1769/features/school-macbooks-further-padlocked/), [open letters](https://gmhslasso.org/1152/opinion/open-letter-about-laptop-reimaging/), and [issue-oriented commentary](http://gmhslasso.org/1166/news/where-oh-where-did-all-my-docs-go/) on The Lasso;
* Sending emails to Mason Instructional Technology Coordinator Mr. Knight or to school administrators requesting a change in policy,
* Circumventing security systems, in violation of FCCPS policy
While a respectable and mature way of expressing discontent, seldom do Lasso articles or other journalism catch the ear of school administrators, much less the GM IT department. Protests via email are similarly ineffectual: Mason staff are understandably inundated constantly with emails, and have a plethora of more important tasks than dealing with student complaints about a blocked website. Finally, despite temptation to escape from school restrictions and use school MacBooks in any way a student desires, such activity is unequivocally a violation of numerous FCCPS policies (like the Acceptable Use Policy and others). Despite this fact, I have occasionally skirted MacBook and network restrictions, but only because I could find no better option in overcoming the obstacles placed in the way of using my computer.

GMHS' IT department certainly does not work with the goal of preventing students from using their computers to the fullest extent they can. However, they are tasked with securing GMHS hardware and the network which enables us to connect to the internet while at school. In doing so, the restrictions placed on students may prevent us from installing software we need, but there is little grounds for formal recourse in these cases.

Work needs to be done to counter this environment in which some students feel their best option for securing necessary access rights is to exploit macOS bugs, damage their MacBook's preinstalled software, and break FCCPS rules. So, I'm happy to announce Mason's first step toward reconciliation: the formation of the Student Technology Advisory Committee.

I've worked alongside Mr. Knight to form this Committee, on which will also sit Principal Hills and members of GMHS' IT department. The goal of the committee, which will be pursued at monthly meetings, is to encourage dialogue between students and Mason's IT staff.

In working with our IT department as the initial student representative to the STAC, I plan to pursue an agenda best described through three goals:
* _Freedom as privilege._ For a majority of students, our MacBooks work exactly how they need to: students can use their web browser to edit work on Google Drive, turn in work and participate in discussions on Schoology, edit images with various local and online software, etc. Though they may be occasionally inconvenienced by network restrictions which prevent them from visiting "fun" websites, these students seldom have cause to complain about their privileges regarding their MacBooks. However, for students like myself, the restrictions in place pose a problem. Though the IT department has kindly allowed easy access to the Atom code editing tool through Self Service, we are still prohibited from accessing Terminal, a tool virtually required to actually run any code we work on. We need to install new software packages (frequently of a type which cannot be installed through a Self Service-style tool). Being without the privileges necessary to install the tools we need or the time required to contact the IT department and have them do so for us, we feel pressured to violate restrictions and jeopardize our own education. So, the first goal of my agenda is to establish an Elevated Access program, under which students who have shown themselves to be a) trustworthy and responsible and b) in need of greater access will be given access to administrator privileges on only their own computers. These students will not be given free reign to use their computers to any extent they desire—i.e. the standard systems used by FCCPS to monitor application and web traffic will still stand. In order to get Elevated Access on their computers, students will have to sign a contract voicing their agreement to abide by all FCCPS policies and use their access only for educational purposes, not to perform any malicious action.
* _Dialogue._ In order to build a stronger relationship between our IT staff and the student body, I propose three web forms (likely implemented as Google Forms) which would be used by the student body to submit reports to the IT staff.
    * A form for submitting websites which students would like unblocked. The process for appealing a website block would be relatively simple: students would simply provide the name/URL of the target, then in brief explain their rationale for removing prohibitions on accessing that website.
    * A form for appealing blocks on applications. Given that applications on these computers are typically blocked for very good reason--there aren't that many in the blacklist, whereas for websites it's possible to block whole categories of content--this appeal process would be a bit longer. Ideally it would involve a much longer explanation of why the application ought to be unblocked, for what the student intends to use it, etc. We could combine this with the above form (and also add options to appeal a block on a Chrome Extension, browser feature, etc.).
    * A form for reporting material which should be blocked. Nobody knows what software and material students are abusing better than students themselves, and so, in the interest of building a stronger relationship with our IT staff, students will have an opportunity to submit reports of network/computer abuse to the staff, potentially in exchange for the unblocking of other material.
A _A reasonable and good-faith loosening of regulations._ There are a large number of websites and applications which are blocked on our MacBooks "just in case." The obvious example of this is the Terminal application. This application can in theory be used for malicious purposes. It has a negative connotation in the minds of the public due to appearing prominently in hacking scenes in sci-fi television like The Matrix or Wargames. However, there is nothing intrinsically bad about this software, and it is necessary for students to work on almost every type of programming with convenience. Blocking it only encourages students to begin experimenting with malicious activity to counter this barrier to their education within the field of computer science. By giving students the benefit of the doubt and allowing access to applications like terminal, the IT staff can better assure that students will behave responsibly with their computers.

As the first student representative on the Student Technology Advisory Committee, I and those who will succeed me hold the job of ambassador of the student body. I recognize that students have strong opinions and demands on these subjects and am specifically open to feedback on how I can help make our school a more hospitable place in which students can use technology safely while being free of undue restrictions on their activity.

Following establishment of these protocols, I'd like to begin to take into account specific student complaints about how our computers are administered.

[Information forthcoming about how they can give me feedback to take to STAC]
